Good morning.
Thank you for coming.
My name is John Comiskey.
I'm an engineer in the
Apple Script Group.
I want to talk to you
today about three things.
We're going to talk about
designing a dictionary for a
newer and existing application.
We're going to spend
most of our time on that.
We're also going to talk about
implementing scriptable objects
to bring that design to reality.
We're going to focus
mostly on Cocoa scripting.
That's what I do most of the time myself.
We're going to talk a little
bit about Carbon at the end.
And we're also going to talk
about developing tests for your
scriptability as you go along.
So you make sure that you don't
backtrack or have any regressions.
Designing a dictionary is the most
important part of the entire operation.
Once you've done that,
writing the code is not as hard.
The thing that we really want to
encourage you to do is to use an
object model in your dictionary.
AppleScript functions best when
applications have an object
model in their dictionary.
And why do you want to use an
object model in your dictionary?
Well, I think you already know
the reasons for that.
You use object-oriented
programming languages yourself.
You know the benefits of them.
You wouldn't go back to the old
ways of doing things anyway.
What we want you to do is to let
scripters have all those same advantages.
We want them to be able
to reuse your objects.
You've put time and
effort into those objects.
If you give the scripter the
opportunity to leverage that,
that adds value,
helps you sell your product,
helps you make money,
which is why you're in this business.
Scriptable applications
are interoperable.
I like to say two plus two is five.
Two scriptable applications can do things
that neither one of them can do alone,
neither one of them can do
while being worked by hand.
If you've got two or more
scriptable applications,
they can be combined together into a
super application that does something
that no one of them can do alone.
Scriptability,
an object model for scriptability
offers your user's flexibility.
When I talk to people about making
their applications scriptable,
they often say, "Well,
why would anybody want to
do that?" And my answer is,
"I don't know why and you
don't know why either,
but your customer knows.
He knows what he wants to do.
He knows what problem he needs solved.
If you give him powerful, recombinable,
reusable objects,
he can build a solution for himself.
And you might be surprised
sometimes at what your own
customers do with your products.
They can also create new
functionality that's missing.
Sooner or later,
you have to ship your product
and you always have a cool new
feature that's almost done,
but it isn't ready to go and
so you have to leave it out.
That's always a disappointment,
but it's a reality of being in business.
AppleScript is the
feature that you forgot.
Your customers can take AppleScript and
use it to create features that
are missing from your application.
If you went to the
AppleScript Studio session yesterday,
you saw a demo of a-- Yes.
--application of your application.
And you saw a demo of your application.
And you saw
We were able to create a feature
that's really nice to have,
but it's missing from Xcode.
Maybe someday it'll be a
native feature of Xcode,
but in the meanwhile,
you can use AppleScript to
write a plugin,
plug it into Xcode, and get a cool new
feature that wasn't there.
There are several reasons why you want
to use an object-oriented language,
an object model in your dictionary.
And the biggest one is
that AppleScript is an
object-oriented language itself.
It's got all the cool things that are in
all the other object-oriented languages:
inheritance, data hiding,
all of those kinds of things.
But you only get those benefits
if you use an object model.
AppleScript is also an
English-like language.
You write simple declarative sentences
with a verb acting on a direct object
modified by one or more clauses.
But you only get that nice
English-like flow if you use an
object model in your dictionary.
When you're writing an AppleScript,
you always use tell blocks,
at least to tell applications.
But you can also use tell blocks
to shorten the Apple events
that you have to write.
If you've got a complex or
deep containment hierarchy,
you can nest tell blocks,
and then the Apple events that
you write inside those tell
blocks are shorter and smaller,
easier to read, easier to understand.
But this only works if you've
got a containment hierarchy
in your object model.
And as I mentioned before,
applications can interoperate.
There's synergy between applications.
They already share data.
What we're talking about is inviting
them into a workflow together.
You can create a workflow across several
different programs from one vendor or
several vendors that solve your problem,
your end user's problem.
And once you've got a workflow like that,
it can be wrapped up in an
AppleScript Studio application
and become one of these super
applications that I mentioned.
You could do something,
some kind of post-production job that has
to be done over and over and over again.
It doesn't require a lot
of artistic expertise,
but it needs to be done,
and it needs to be done a lot.
That can be turned into
an automated workflow.
While we're talking about this today,
we're going to be developing some
regression tests for your own software.
Those can be put together into
a workflow so that a tester can
just fire up a Studio application,
run it, come back later and find out what
the results of the tests were.
But none of this works if you don't
have a software that's able to do that.
works unless you use an object
model in your dictionary.
So what is an object model?
It's a lot easier to say what it's not.
This is the implementation of
folder actions from system nine.
It's not an object model.
It's five different verbs.
And you can see pretty
quickly what goes wrong here.
Two of these verbs have
remove and add in them.
You could have used make and delete,
which are already standard
verbs in the standard suite.
You can also see that these events
have things that ought to be objects
just embedded right into the verb.
It takes away the flexibility and the
recombination that an end user can do
when the verb and the object are sealed
together into a single event like this.
And you'll also see that a lot
of these end with a preposition.
And you all know you should never
end a sentence with a preposition.
Again, this takes away flexibility.
Prepositional phrases in Apple script
should be parameters and they should
usually be optional parameters.
You shouldn't force the user to
describe prepositional phrases
whether he needs them or not.
So this is a good
example of a bad example.
In Panther,
we have done something about this.
All the old verbs for folder
actions are still there and they
still work and we actually still
use them ourselves internally.
But we've also provided an
object model for folder actions.
The first thing you notice
is the rectangle got smaller.
You can express all the same
operations in a smaller dictionary
if it's an object model.
These two objects can do all
the things that those five
verbs did plus a lot more.
You get more for your
money with an object model.
When you start to design
your object model,
you should plan for a
full implementation.
Look into the future.
We know that you've got to
ship something and you've got a
limited amount of time to do that.
But your life's going to be better and
easier a year from now if you've planned
an object model with room to grow.
Map out as big an object hierarchy as you
think is meaningful for your application.
Decide now what things are going
to be called in the future so that
we don't run into the problem of
all the good names have been taken.
And define as much
functionality as possible.
Everything that someone can do by
hand with your program is a very
good candidate for scriptability.
Some high-powered operations
that might not be suitable to
be done by hand might also be
targets for scriptability as well.
Your scripting implementation
may in the end actually be more
powerful than your GUI presentation.
Now you've planned for the future.
You've planned this huge object model,
and now you don't have
time to implement it all.
You're going to have to scale
back for your first release
and only do part of it.
When you decide what you are going to do,
it's important to include
a minimal functional set,
enough objects and enough verbs to do
at least one interesting operation,
something that some customer's
been bugging you about.
If you pick a set of objects that
allows you to perform that function,
you know you've got a
minimal functional set.
There's sometimes things
in your application,
it's hard to think how you might
use them through scriptability.
There's complex interactions.
One example in network setup,
you've got an IP address and
you've got a router address,
and they're not
independent of each other.
If you change one,
you might have to change the other,
and you have to do it in
a synchronous fashion.
It's not easy to see how you're
going to do that with AppleScript.
Maybe the solution for release one is
to just leave those properties running.
If you make that read-only,
chances are you're using
a DHCP server anyway.
You need to know what the IP address is,
but you don't need to change it.
If you make that read-only,
the information is available,
the value is there for your user,
and you've skipped a complex
problem until later when you
have more time to think about it.
Even if you have a largely read-only
implementation in your first release,
you should always provide at least
one powerful read-write function
that can actually do something.
In the instance of network setup,
that would be the location.
If a user can switch his
location through scriptability,
then he really has the power he
needs to do whatever he wants.
He's got to sit down in advance,
create a number of configurations,
organize them into locations
that are meaningful for him.
But once he's done that,
all he needs to do is change the
location as he moves from city to city,
or from work to home,
or into a conference room,
or anywhere else he might go.
The standard suite has a number of
verbs that cover almost everything
you're ever going to want to do.
Get and set are used on
properties of your objects.
Exists, count, make,
and delete are pretty much implemented
for you by Cocoa scripting.
There's not a lot that you have to do.
If you create scriptable
objects according to the pattern
that Cocoa scripting expects,
these four verbs are just going to work.
Then in the standard suite,
all that's left is six other
verbs that act on objects,
things like print and save,
where you're going to really
have to write some code yourself,
and quit to quit the entire application.
We think the 13 verbs in the
standard suite will cover most of
what you're going to want to do,
and you should always try
to use them first before you
create a verb of your own.
If you use an object model
along with the standard suite,
you get this multiplicative effect.
If your object model has, say,
three objects with an average
of ten properties each,
and they can all be get and set,
that's 60 operations you
can perform right there.
If those three objects also respond to
the ten other verbs that act on objects,
and remember,
four of those ten are done for you,
that's another 30 operations that
your application can perform,
plus one more, quit.
So that's 91 things that
your application can do,
and you've hardly written any
code at all at this point.
One thing we tell people not to
do is to create a bunch of verbs.
You saw what happened
with folder actions.
We created a bunch of verbs.
It worked.
It covered the problem
that we needed solved,
but it was kind of a dead end.
It couldn't do anything more than that.
So we discouraged the
creating of a lot of verbs.
The temptation is there to do that,
to just take an existing API and expose
it as a lot of AppleScript verbs,
but it doesn't give you the
power that an object model does.
[Transcript missing]
If you do need a verb,
go ahead and create it.
First, you should look at the standard
verbs and make sure there's
nothing there that you can use.
But once you've decided
that that's the case,
yeah, it's okay to go ahead
and make your own verbs.
They should be simple
operations that your application
performs on its own objects.
And the names of these verbs are going to
come from probably buttons and menu items
that you already have in your program.
Now, that doesn't mean you should
take every button and every menu
item and turn it into a verb.
But when you're trying to
figure out what to call a verb,
you should call it the same
thing you call it in your UI.
You should try to create verbs that
can be reused on multiple objects.
That's what the standard
suite is all about.
It's 13 verbs that we think
you can use everywhere.
You should try to do the same thing
when you create verbs of your own.
If you create a verb that only acts
on one object or one kind of object,
you're slipping back into that procedural
verb problem that we talked about.
And one thing that you want,
and you want verbs that can
be reused in your application,
a good place to find them is to
reuse verbs from other applications.
Look at the scriptable apps from
Apple and see what's there that
you might already be able to use.
If you copy a verb or any other
term from another application,
you should copy the human readable
term and the four byte code,
both.
That's going to make your program
interoperate better with other programs.
Your dictionary is scoped to your
application and you won't end up in
collisions with other applications,
but you also won't end up
in synergy with them either.
And you should definitely
choose reusable parameters.
There's a lot of things in
the standard dictionary,
little prepositional phrases
that modify the verbs,
that are going to be
of use to you anywhere.
There's one in there for naming the
target file that you want to write to.
That can be reused.
There's others in there for--.
Or ask me if I should do
something before I quit.
That might be useful to you.
Reuse those parameters too and recombine
them with your verbs in different ways.
[Transcript missing]
Definitely avoid just exposing
your raw internal API.
Don't just take all of the commands,
all of the routines in your
API and just turn them into verbs.
This is how you end up with a dictionary
with two or three hundred verbs in it.
It leads to these clunky,
one-dimensional procedural
verbs that we don't like.
How do I decide what I'm
going to call these things?
Where do I get the words that I'm
going to use in my dictionary?
How do I decide what these things
are and what they're called?
The best way to do this if you can,
if you've got an existing application
and you've got users that have
been bugging you for automation,
interview one of them.
Sit them down,
maybe sit facing away from them,
and have them describe to
you what it is they're doing.
the what they'll do is they'll lead you
through the steps that it takes for them
to perform an operation by hand write
down what they're saying that that's your
apple script it's not gonna compile and
it's not gonna run you're gonna have to
change the the wording so that it fits
in the apple script form but that's not
the most important part most important
parties you can have to pull out of
that description the objects that the
person's talking about and make those the
scriptable objects in your dictionary use
the same words that your customers are
already using to describe these things
and then they don't have to relearn
your program for scriptability they look
in the scripting dictionary and they say
oh i know what that is and they know what
it is because you got the word from them
So then you define in your dictionary
those objects and properties that
the user says he needs to do his job,
and you only create new verbs when
he's doing something that your program
does and other programs don't do that.
If you don't have the opportunity
to talk to a real live user
about how he does his work,
maybe your company has technical writers
and produces some nice documentation.
In those documents,
there's very often a tutorial
or a sample session of a user
sitting down using the program.
This is the same kind of information
that came from the interview.
That step-by-step tutorial of how
to do something with the program,
again, that could be in AppleScript.
You've got to massage the syntax
into the AppleScript form,
but much more importantly,
you have to create the objects
that the user is manipulating
so that scriptability will be as
powerful and more so than the GUI.
So you define those objects
and properties that are
in your documentation,
create new verbs if you have to.
Now you don't have to have separate
documentation for your scripting and for
the rest of your program because whatever
it's called in the documentation,
that's what it's called
in the dictionary.
dictionary.
If you're out there by yourself
and you don't have customers that
you can sit down and interview on
a frequent basis and you don't have
a big tech writing organization,
you can look at your own object model.
We started out by saying you know
what's good about object models.
You use them yourself.
You're using one in your application.
Look at it and abstract from that
the objects and properties that your
customers are most likely to need
to do what it is they want to do.
But if you take this approach,
the most important thing is humanizing
the programmatic terms that you've used.
Just reading your source code,
it's too techy,
it's too hard to understand.
You have to put this in a
form that an end user is going
to be able to understand.
You definitely don't want to
expose absolutely everything
that's in your program.
You've probably got a few main objects
that represent the concepts that
the end user is trying to work with.
You've also probably got a bunch of
helper objects that do interesting
and important things that the
customer doesn't need to know about.
Those helper objects don't belong
in your AppleScript dictionary.
Just the main conceptual objects do.
When you're pulling terminology
out of your application,
you've got to humanize it.
One of the most important things
is get rid of the inner caps.
Use separate words with white
space in between them instead.
Good terminology in AppleScript doesn't
use a lot of capital letters.
You only want to use capital letters
for acronyms and proper nouns.
The reason for this is
AppleScript is English-like.
These terms show up in different
places in an Apple event,
and if you've got a capital letter
in the middle of an Apple event,
it looks funny.
If that capital letter is there
because it's a product name,
it makes sense.
But if it's there because it's one
of your verbs or one of your objects,
it's going to confuse people.
If you have Boolean properties,
you might have the
word "is" in your code.
Leave that out.
"Is" means something in AppleScript.
You don't want to make it
part of your terminology.
And again, only make new verbs if
you really need them.
The last way that you can go about
it is to look at your own GUI and
extract an object model from that.
This one's tricky because you might have
a tendency to script the user interface,
and that's something
you don't want to do.
There's a session tomorrow at 3:11
where we're going to talk about
scripting the user interface and
try to convince you further that
that's not what you want to do.
So don't just describe the little
widgets that are on the screen and give
the user the ability to poke at them.
Conceptualize it.
Figure out what it is
that widget represents.
Maybe it's a property,
maybe it's an object.
Give it a name and put
it in your dictionary.
Don't just inventory everything.
Again,
you'll end up with a long dictionary
that's hard to find things in.
Conceptualize.
What are these things
that I'm manipulating?
What is it that I'm
trying to do with them?
What properties do they
have that can be gathered?
and set.
When you form the terms themselves,
don't use articles like a, an, and the.
Leave those out.
They can be sprinkled in
to your AppleScript later.
They don't affect the way
that the AppleScript executes,
but they can make it easier to read.
If you've embedded them
in your terminology,
then it's hard for a person writing an
AppleScript to shift them and shuffle
them to where they ought to belong.
Also,
avoid personal pronouns like me and my.
Again,
me and my mean something in AppleScript.
You don't want to stick
them in your terminology.
And again,
if you do need to define some verbs,
you're probably going to find
the terminology for them on an
existing button or an existing menu
item somewhere in your program.
Again, don't expose everything.
Not every menu item
needs to become a verb.
And the menu items that do need to become
a verb are already in the standard suite.
At least that's our
When you're mapping stuff off of
the screen into your dictionary,
most of the stuff you're looking at is
going to be properties of an object.
Generally, one window or one pane within
a window is going to represent
an object and everything inside
that is going to be a property.
When you map that to your dictionary,
you're going to need to
pick data types for those.
The most important one here on
this slide is radio buttons.
If you have a small,
finite set of values that
a property can take on,
that should be expressed
as an enumeration.
It makes your Apple scripts look nice,
makes them easier to read,
and it gives the scripter the
notion that he can't set this
value to just any old thing.
He's got to pick from this list.
[Transcript missing]
to richer relationships
in your object model.
Some pop-ups are just
replacements for radio buttons.
And in that case they ought
to be rendered in your
dictionary as an enumeration,
just like the radio buttons were.
But other pop-ups actually
represent an element relationship.
If you change a pop-up at
the top of your window,
and it changes the entire
contents of the screen,
and now you're looking at
a different set of data,
then that pop-up really represents
an element relationship.
And to go back to our
example of network setup,
the location is a pop-up in the UI,
but it actually represents an element
relationship in the object model.
Same thing with scrolling lists.
Sometimes a list is
just a list of strings,
and if that's all it is,
then maybe that's what you should
be passing back to your user.
This is a property,
the property is an array of strings.
But that's not always the case.
Sometimes a scrolling list actually
represents an element relationship.
For instance, in the finder,
you've got a scrolling list of files.
That you would want to render in your
dictionary as an element relationship,
a relationship between two objects.
Table views are a rich source
of element relationships.
This is a simple spreadsheet.
There's already a table view suite
defined in the standard headers.
It's got a table which
contains rows and columns.
The intersection of a
row and column is a cell.
And each cell can in turn be a container
for an entirely new object hierarchy.
The contents of a cell in a
spreadsheet might be a chart.
And the chart has an entire
object hierarchy of its own.
So this is somewhat of a physical
mapping from your screen to a dictionary.
If you do something like a spreadsheet
where the user has the opportunity
to put all different kinds of
data in here and you don't know
in advance what it's going to be,
a physical mapping like
this might be appropriate.
If you...
If you do know a little bit about the
data that's expressed in a table view,
then you can make an abstraction.
In this instance,
this is a page from a database program
that I wrote just as an experiment.
The object here, the table itself,
represents a database.
Instead of calling each line a row,
we're going to call it a record.
And instead of a row
being divided into cells,
we're going to have fields.
And the fields are going to have names,
which happen to be the
same names as a row.
The columns are going to
be the same as the columns.
This is one step up from
the physical mapping.
The most interesting thing about this
is that Jim Mora is one of the 25
winningest coaches in NFL history.
One step up from that
is a conceptual mapping.
We really know what this is all about.
This table is for one purpose.
It's a database, but it's my database and
I control what's in it.
This is part of the folder
action setup user interface
that's going to be in Panther.
Here the container is
the application itself.
Nobody owns this.
There isn't a table anymore.
There's just folder actions and the
application has a bunch of them.
And every folder action has
a name and a switch that says
whether it's enabled or not.
The thing that's not showing here is
there's another scrolling list right
next to it where every folder action
has a set of scripts attached to it
and that's an element relationship.
So when you're designing your dictionary,
we definitely want you
to use an object model.
It makes your program fit
in better with AppleScript.
It makes your program fit in better
with other scriptable applications.
AppleScript Studio lets
you be part of a workflow,
lets you be part of a super application.
Only create new verbs when you have to.
Use something in the
standard suite if you can.
Omit certain words from your
terminology that make a mess of things.
And don't use uppercase unless
it's a proper noun of some kind.
Go ahead and take things
from other programs.
The reason scriptable applications
interact the way they do is because
they use similar terminology.
This allows you to interact with
other programs at a level above just
passing back numbers and strings.
Lay out the entire future as far as you
think you're ever going to be able to go,
and then implement what you
can in the first release,
remembering to give your
scripter at least one really
interesting thing that he can do.
You have to write a sample script,
so you need at least one
really interesting thing to do.
Now you've got your dictionary
and you need to write some code.
There's three cases that
you can find yourself in.
If you're really lucky
you're starting from scratch.
You're building a whole new
application from the ground up.
You can do whatever you want.
Much more likely you've got an existing
application and you've been tasked
with adding scriptability to it.
You're going to have
to keep what's there,
keep the GUI functionality,
and add scripting to it.
You're going to need to
do a little retrofitting.
The toughest situation is when you've
got a big existing framework that is
not itself scriptable and you don't have
the opportunity to make it scriptable.
Perhaps your application is cross
platform and you use a framework that
makes being cross platform real easy,
but it makes being scriptable real hard.
So the first case, maximum freedom,
starting from scratch,
I can do anything I want,
except interview a user who is using the
program because it doesn't exist yet.
So how do I do this?
How do I find,
how do I develop my terminology if
the program itself doesn't even exist?
Well, if you're from a large corporation
that has a powerful marketing
department and they provide you with
detailed specifications in advance,
that information can be used
to develop the object model for
your AppleScript dictionary.
That's not normally the case,
the situation I find myself in.
I've got some direction,
I've got some goals,
but I don't have a lot
of real specifications.
[Transcript missing]
And when you're done,
you'll have an AppleScript dictionary,
which is an object model of the
conceptual objects that your
end user is going to be using,
whether they're scripting
or using the GUI.
This can actually be a design
document for your entire application.
You've got a running start here of how
the entire application should look,
regardless of scripting.
One of the things that I do to make
my life easier is I implemented
a scriptable base class that does
a lot of the common functions.
This is the promise of
object-oriented programming,
reusable code.
So my scripting is mostly done
by this reusable base object.
It gives me consistent
behavior across all my objects.
All the objects in a particular program
are going to behave very much the same.
You won't get a lot of
chattering between them that
makes them hard to use together.
If your company develops a
suite of applications and you
have a scriptable base class,
this is going to give you consistent
behavior across your applications.
This is beginning to build the synergy.
Now these applications
can talk to each other.
They have similar object models.
They have similar ways of
describing those object models.
They can pass things back
and forth that are a level up
from just strings and numbers.
Less code is less bugs.
If you've got a base class that works,
you find you're spending
very little time on it.
time debugging it and that's great
because then you can do other stuff.
My scriptable base class is called
Element because every object in a
scriptable application's dictionary
is an element of some other object.
The top-level objects are all
elements of the application itself.
Good scriptable objects have names,
so I have a way to set and
get the name of my object.
In some applications,
you may find that you want
unique IDs for your objects.
Databases, especially,
the objects will have
persistent unique IDs.
Unique IDs in AppleScript are
guaranteed to be good for one
launch of the application.
And in order to create a unique ID that's
good for one launch of the application,
all you need is a serial number.
Just never give the same number out to
two different objects and you're okay.
There's a slight problem with that,
though.
If somewhere in the
execution of a script,
that application quits
and then relaunches,
it will start reusing those unique IDs.
If you've saved an object specifier
in a script variable and it's
still hanging around after the
application has quit and relaunched,
it might now refer to a different object,
and that could be bad.
One way to get around that
is just use a timestamp.
You can get the timestamp once when
your application launches or every
time somebody creates an object.
Now, even if your application
quits and relaunches,
it will never generate
the same unique ID again.
If you need unique IDs for
something like a database,
That need to persist across several
launches of the application and
need to stay the same across
several launches of the application.
Core Foundation provides
something called a UUID,
and it's great.
It's got a timestamp in it,
so it has all the
qualities of a timestamp.
It's got your Ethernet
hardware address in it,
so it can even be differentiated from
objects created on other machines.
And the first part of it is a hash key,
which means if you stick it
into a hash table or a binary,
the IDs will spread out across
the range and they won't cluster
together like if you were just
using a plain old timestamp.
Every good scriptable object needs to be
able to send back an object specifier to
describe itself so that that same object
can be retrieved later in the script.
In my ScriptableBase class,
I've implemented a cascade that
creates an object specifier for
every object and tries to create the
best object specifier that it can.
If unique ID is defined in the
dictionary for this object,
I go ahead and use that, unless,
of course, there isn't one.
If there is no unique
ID defined in the dictionary,
then I look and see if name
is defined in the dictionary.
Every good Apple Scriptable object
should have one or the other of
those defined in the dictionary.
If it turns out that neither
of those is available,
then I use an index specifier instead.
Index specifiers are weak.
They may not even be good for
one launch of the application.
If you add or delete any objects at all,
your index specifiers
are going to change,
and any that you might have stored
in script variables just aren't
going to be any good anymore.
Or, they're going to point to a different
object and that could be bad.
In order to create an object specifier,
you're going to call an API that's
going to need two pieces of information.
What container do I belong in?
And what does my container call me?
And that's what these
first two things are about.
Every scriptable object I create
has a pointer back to its parent.
Do not retain your parent pointer.
This creates a loop,
and your objects will never go away.
An object also needs to know
what its parent calls it.
What element relationship
does it belong to?
I have a method called siblings.
It simply passes back the name of
the method that vends this collection
of objects back to the container.
These two pieces of information
are going to be necessary to
create your own object specifier,
so I keep them around all
the time in all my objects.
Another thing I do as a favor to myself
is every one of my scriptable objects has
an NSDictionary in it called attributes.
And I use this to store the data for
all the properties of the object.
Now I can take this NSDictionary,
flatten it, write it out to the disk,
read it back in later.
If I used a UUID to give it a unique ID,
I've now got a persistent object
that I can use across several
launches of the application,
several runs of a script,
several days from now.
I can go back and get that same data
and use it in a scriptable way again.
This does not show up in
my AppleScript dictionary.
Each individual property shows
up in my AppleScript dictionary,
but physically inside I keep
them all in an NSDictionary.
It's nice, it's easy,
does a lot of stuff for you.
Now you need to create
your actual model objects,
the things that you've decided
to define in your dictionary.
You're going to want to create
an object that inherits from
your scriptable base class,
so now you don't have to worry about
names or IDs or object specifiers.
That's all done.
You are going to need to
initialize this object.
The way Cocoa scripting works,
it creates an object first,
then it calls the various set
methods to set the parameters.
To work with this,
you need to have an init method
that doesn't take any parameters.
It has to create an object
that's ready to use right now.
To do that, you might need to do some
defensive programming.
Make sure that checking pointers
for nil and things like that.
That object has to be safe to use right
away because the way Cocoa is going to
use it is it's going to allocate it,
it's going to initialize it,
and then it's going to call the
set methods to set what's in it.
If it's not safe to do that,
you're going to have trouble.
Cocoa scripting is also, well,
not just Cocoa scripting,
but Cocoa itself,
is going to expect you to have
a deallocate method so that
you can put away all your toys.
AppleScript is very memory intensive.
Cocoa scripting is very memory intensive.
You create and delete a lot of objects
to process a particular Apple event.
You want to make sure
that you're not leaking.
So you want to make sure that you chain
to any deallocation methods from any
base classes you inherit from as well.
You want your scriptable
objects to have properties.
And the way you do that in
Cocoa scripting is by creating a method.
"The property name is the part
that you want to change to the
property names that you've selected
when you designed your dictionary."
Your dictionary also has
element relationships.
And there's varying levels of
support for that that you can do
in your Cocoa Scriptable Objects.
The most basic one is to
provide a method that has the
same name as the element name.
And it bends back to whoever calls
it an array of objects of that type.
This is the minimum amount necessary
for a Cocoa scripting application.
There are more things that you can do
to make your application more efficient,
but this is the start.
You have to start here.
The first time you come through this,
I just want you to create the methods.
They don't really have to do anything.
But the element relationships have
to at least fake it a little bit
so that you can test this stuff.
We're trying to get to the point
where we can write some test scripts,
see if our program even works at all,
and then we're going to go back,
we're going to create this skeleton,
and then we're going to go back
and put some muscles on it.
You also, every, everything is an element
of some other object.
Your top-level objects are going to
be elements of the application itself.
In order to do that,
you're going to have to add
element relationship methods
to the NSApplication object.
We don't want you to have to subclass
NSApplication if you don't want to.
If you do that for some other reason,
great, but you don't have to
do it for scripting.
You can use an Objective-C category
or a delegate to add the methods that
you need to the application object.
You may also have properties
of the application.
There's no place to put these.
You can't change the list of
IVARs in the NSApplicationObject.
You could if you subclassed it,
but we want to try to avoid that.
But since there's only
one application object,
it's okay to go ahead and
use globals for these,
for any persistent properties that
the application itself might have.
Normally,
you want to avoid using globals,
but this is an instance
where it might be okay.
Now, you want to be able to
create and delete objects.
You want to be able to insert
them into collections and
remove them from collections.
And Cocoa Scripting, again,
takes the element names that you've
decided to use in your dictionary,
creates method names out of them,
and then you write those methods.
So you want to be able to insert
elements into the element relationship,
and there's two ways to do that.
You can do it positionally,
or you can do it independent of position.
Sometimes doing it
positionally is important.
If you're creating and deleting windows,
you might want to create
them in the front,
you might want to
create them in the back,
you might want to create them
in between existing windows.
So you'd want to insert things at index.
Other things that you create,
there's really no implicit order to them.
It's okay if they just go at the end.
In that case,
you can do a simpler insertion
routine that doesn't take an index.
Either one of these will work.
For various reasons,
you may end up wanting to do both.
These are both going to be
used anytime you make a new
object in your Apple script.
You also want to be able to
remove things from the collection.
That's always done by index.
That's the way Cocoa scripting works.
The object may be found in
any one of a number of ways,
but when it finally gets deleted,
it's going to get deleted
by index inside your code.
This gets called by the delete verb.
There's enhanced element accessors
that can make things more efficient.
For instance, if you are implementing a
database and you are using
UUIDs to identify the records,
you could potentially
have millions of these.
You don't simply want to have
a method that creates an array
and passes them all back.
That's not practical.
Your program is not
going to work very well.
There are enhanced methods that allow
you to get objects directly by index,
by name, and by unique ID.
These can be a whole lot more
efficient than just searching a big,
huge array.
The decision of whether or
not you want to do this is
a performance consideration.
You want to build your
program the simple way first,
measure it, and see if you need it.
But in the case of millions
of records in a database,
it's pretty obvious you're
going to need to do this.
The details for this were
covered in last year's session.
If you've got the DVDs,
it was session 303.
If not,
there's a webpage on the developer
site that tells you a lot about this.
And on your CDs,
there's Cocoa Scripting release notes,
which also describes how to do this.
Now we want to test our objects.
We've got this skeleton.
It doesn't really do anything yet.
We've got a bunch of objects.
They've got a bunch of phony properties.
They've got some phony elements.
We can't really do anything useful yet,
but we can start writing
our test scripts.
First thing that I do--
I put a logging macro in every
single method that I write.
All the getters, all the setters,
all the element accessors.
I put a logging macro in there,
and I have a switch here
that I can turn on and off.
Whenever I want to test my application,
see what it's doing,
try to figure out why it's not
handling an Apple event correctly,
I turn this switch on and run it,
and I get all sorts of
stuff in the console log.
But it tells me line by line
where I've been in my program,
what I did, what I did right,
and what I did wrong.
It's nice to know where
you've been in your program.
It's nicer still to know why.
Cocoa Scripting will help you out there.
This first line here,
if you type it into your
terminal application,
it will turn on Cocoa Scripting's
own logging facility.
Every time Cocoa Scripting
gets an incoming Apple event,
it uses your dictionary to parse it,
pull it apart,
figure out what all the pieces are.
As soon as Cocoa Scripting
has reached that point,
if this switches on,
it logs what it thinks that message,
what it thinks that Apple event says.
Now that you've got that information of
what the incoming Apple event looks like,
and then a log of everything
that your program did to try
to respond to that Apple event,
it can help you a lot in debugging it.
If you have certain kinds of
errors in your dictionary,
Cocoa Scripting may not be able
to form a script command out
of what it is it's received.
In that case,
you're going to have to go down
one layer lower and get the
Apple Event Manager to tell you
what that Apple event looks like.
Again, you type these commands into
your terminal application.
You need the first one and
one or more of the others.
Then you have to launch your
application from inside the terminal.
Then in the terminal scroll,
you will see Apple Event Manager doing
the same thing.
Every time he gets an Apple event,
he tears it apart, looks at it.
says what he thinks it means
and puts it in the terminal log.
This is all at a lower level.
All you're going to see at
this level is four byte codes,
not very much in the
way of interpretation.
But it can tell you probably the
reason why Cocoa Scripting is
having a hard time with that event.
So then you want to start
writing some scripts.
And the first script you want
to write is one that probes
your entire object hierarchy,
touches every object,
touches every property,
gives you maximum coverage so you can
see if your program is written correctly.
With AppleScript,
that's a relatively easy thing to do.
AppleScript supports the Every modifier,
which is a range specifier that
says I want to act over the
entire collection of objects.
And Cocoa Scripting supports for you,
for free, the Properties property,
which returns a record of all
the properties of a given object.
So here in the course of just
about nine lines of AppleScript,
I've managed to probe the entire object
hierarchy of the folder action suite.
This script tells me
that everything's there,
everything works,
it's time to go back and
start writing some code.
So I'm going to want to go back to
all the methods that I created before,
all the properties,
all the set properties,
all the element relationships.
And I want to populate
them with real data now.
The element relationships are going
to get their data from various
APIs or collections of data inside
your program that may already exist.
And the properties are going to draw
their data from those actual objects.
Once you've put some
muscles into these routines,
you can go back and you can
rerun all of your test scripts.
And you'll see a big
change from the first time.
The first time, you just got back a bunch
of zeros and missing values.
This time,
you'll start to get back some real data,
objects with real names,
and real properties set to real values.
Once you've reached this point,
you want to write even more test scripts.
You want to be able to make sure
you don't have any regressions.
As you add more features,
as you add more capability,
you want to make sure you don't break
anything that was already working before.
And one of the things you want to do is
test accessing your objects by all the
various means that they can be accessed.
Simplest is index.
You can just count them and
loop through them and get each
one and get its properties.
To do a thorough test
here for folder actions,
you'd have to have an inner loop that
did the same thing to every script,
but I ran out of room on this slide.
You can also access things by name.
You want to make sure that that works.
This is going to test an
important part of your program.
AppleScript does not require
that object names be unique.
You may,
in the implementation of your program,
require that these names be unique.
But one way or the other,
you need to run this test.
If you've got two objects
with the same name,
if you allow that,
you should find in this test that you can
only ever really get to the first one.
If you support unique IDs,
you want to make sure that
that kind of access works.
So you want to write nested
loops here that access every
object by its unique ID.
And this is one of the most important.
Every scriptable object needs to offer
up an object specifier for itself so
that you can find that same object
again later and do something new to it.
You've got to make sure that those
object specifiers really work,
that they really get you back to the same
object that they were supposed to be.
And so you want to write a test for that.
Loop through every object,
get an object specifier for it,
then go back and get the properties
using that object specifier and make sure
that it's the object you thought it was.
And you want to make something new.
You want to create a new element and
insert it into a collection of elements.
You do that with the make new verb
that's part of the standard suite.
This is particularly interesting.
If you do this,
If you do this with all
of the logging turned on,
you'll find out a lot about
how your program works,
how Cocoa scripting works,
and you'll see that just to create
a single object and insert it into
a collection will end up calling
Every property accessor on
that object and every element
accessor in the hierarchy all
the way back to the application.
One of the most powerful features
of AppleScript are "whose"
clauses that allow you to select
objects based on whether or
not they satisfy a certain test.
So you want to make sure that you write
some good tests of "whose" clauses.
The folder actions supports an
enabled flag for every object.
So here I've written some "whose" clauses
based on the setting of the enabled flag.
If you go into your folder actions,
set some of the enabled flags
to "on," some of them to
"off," and run this script,
you should get varying results.
And even though the last two
events look very similar,
there is a subtle difference.
The presence of those parentheses will
cause those last two events to actually
return different collections of objects.
We talked about some other scenarios
that you could find yourself in.
Most common is adding scriptability
to an existing application.
It's a little bit less
flexibility than you had when
you were starting from scratch,
but you do a lot of the same things.
One thing that I would suggest is
that you use Objective-C categories
to add the scripting methods
to an existing application.
You don't have to go into the
source files for the existing
objects and actually change them.
You can put your scripting
in a separate file,
create it in the form of a category.
It's a very powerful way of
modifying existing objects,
but it's also non-intrusive.
If there's any point in the development
cycle where you have a crisis
of faith and you think that your
scripting implementation has horribly
screwed up your application and
you don't know what to do about it,
you can go into Xcode and simply
uncheck the scripting files,
rebuild your app,
and try it again and find out
that maybe it was that guy
next to you that messed it up,
not you.
Or maybe it was you,
and then you can fix it.
Objective-C categories are a great way
of building scriptability alongside your
existing objects without mucking them up.
You still do have the issue of an init
method that doesn't take any parameters.
You might find that your existing
objects aren't built that way,
that your existing objects
have an init method that takes
a whole bunch of parameters,
basically setting all of the
properties at once at the same
time that the object is created.
Cocoa scripting isn't
going to work that way.
It's going to want an init
method with no parameters.
And again,
you've got to make sure that the
result at the end of that init
method is a safe object whose
methods can be called right now.
Objective-C categories are a great
way to build a scripting application.
and it isn't going to
dereference any nil pointers.
And again,
you're going to need a deallocate method
because you're going to be creating
and deleting a lot of these things in
the course of handling Apple events,
and you don't want to leak.
Once you've created your categories
alongside your existing objects,
you're going to have to implement
all of your various properties,
the getters and setters,
and your element names and
your element relationships.
You may find that some of
the properties that you need
already exist in the objects,
and you just go ahead and reuse them.
The way that a dictionary is constructed,
the external name for a property
and its internal name don't
have to be closely related.
So if you've got a getter
and a setter for the name,
for instance,
you can just go ahead and reuse that.
If you find that the AppleScript version
of this getter and setter need to be
slightly different than the other,
then you can wrap one around the other.
But one way or another,
you have to satisfy all of
these properties by creating
methods to access them.
Same thing with the
element relationships.
You'll need to create the
element relationships in
your scripting categories.
You can't reuse any of the existing ones.
For instance, NSApplication already has
an ordered documents method,
and Cocoa Scripting reuses
that for its own purposes.
There's no reason to create a new one.
And again,
you want to extend the NSApplication
so that your top level objects are
all elements of the application.
And again, we would suggest you use an
Objective-C category or a delegate
to do that for the same reason.
You don't have to mess with
the real NSApplication object.
And while you're doing this,
you should add your logging macro
to every method that you create.
Then we're going to want to go through
the same steps we went through before.
We're going to want to write a
bunch of scripts to test this with,
even though some of the
functionality might not be there yet.
Then we want to go back and
add some muscle to our objects,
fill in those property accessors
so that they get at real data,
fill in those element accessors so they
pass back collections of real objects.
Then go back and rerun
all of your scripts,
and make sure that the differences
you see in the results are
the ones that you expected.
The last situation is the toughest one,
and that's adding scriptability
To a large application that depends on a
framework that is not itself scriptable
and cannot easily be made scriptable.
Again, though, you want to go through
most of the same steps.
You want to define a real
good dictionary first.
Then you want to define
the scriptable objects,
properties,
and element relationships that
bring that dictionary to life.
And you want to do this as if
you were starting from scratch.
You've got this existing framework
that you can't penetrate too easily,
and you want to add
Cocoa Scripting to it.
Just create the Cocoa Scripting objects
as if you were starting from scratch,
as if this other application
didn't even exist.
Do the same thing we did before.
Give them just enough
functionality so that you can
write some interesting tests.
Then you're going to want to go back
and add muscle to these objects by
taking all of the property accessors and
element accessors and tying them back
into existing APIs and existing objects
inside the impenetrable framework.
This is where the complexity can arise.
The object model that you chose to
express in your AppleScript dictionary
and the object model that
exists in this impenetrable
framework might not match up.
You might have to do some sorting
and searching and recombining of
things to get them to work right.
This is where this scenario
can become difficult.
But when you're done,
or you think you're done,
you can go back and rerun all of your
scripts that you wrote and see if you
got the results that you were expecting.
It should give you an indication
that you've done it correctly.
We promised that we would
talk about Cocoa and Carbon,
and we haven't said
anything about Carbon yet.
So what about Carbon?
Well,
you can still script a Carbon application
in the same way that you always have.
The OSL is still there, it still works,
and you can use it.
And that's very well documented in the
inter-application communication document.
Mac Tech is now the guardian of
all the old develop articles.
This one is a particularly good one,
a cookbook,
a recipe for taking a Carbon application
and making it scriptable.
They weren't even called
Carbon applications back
when this was written.
So you can do it that way.
It's not easy,
but we've all done it at least once,
and it can be done.
I would suggest that you seriously
consider migrating to Cocoa.
I know it's not trivial.
Carbon is a first-class citizen,
and it's going to be supported forever.
But Cocoa is the way we encourage
you to develop new apps.
If you reach a point in your
development cycle where you're
really considering just chucking
it all in and starting over again,
consider starting over again in Cocoa.
I wouldn't start over
again just for scripting,
but it's certainly a factor.
If you do rewrite your
application in Cocoa,
Objective-C and Cocoa scripting will make
the scripting part of your job very easy.
A year ago,
we promised that we would come up
with an API for Carbon scripting that
was just as easy to use as Cocoa,
just as powerful,
did all the same things for you,
leveraged all of that existing power.
And we thought and thought
and thought of how to do this,
and it was really hard,
and we were going to end up having
to rewrite almost everything
that Cocoa scripting did.
And it occurred to us, well,
maybe we could just use Cocoa scripting.
So we conducted an experiment
and found out that,
yes, as a matter of fact,
it pretty much just works.
You can use Cocoa scripting in
an otherwise Carbon application.
This is really a special
case of the third scenario.
You've got this big impenetrable
framework that's hard to make scriptable.
You want to build a Cocoa scripting
implementation alongside of it and tie
it into the existing implementation.
You can actually do that with
any existing Carbon application.
It's not hard, but it's not trivial.
There's a few tricks
that you need to know,
a few modifications you need to make
to your application's startup code.
But once you've done that,
Cocoa Scripting just works.
There is a price, though.
You don't get this for free.
It can have a performance
impact on your application,
and the only way for you to find out what
that is is to just measure it yourself.
And the two things that you're
going to need to measure are
launch time and memory usage.
So you want to get a baseline for
those before you start your work.
You don't have to do your entire
scripting implementation to find
out what this impact is going to be,
but you do have to make the
changes to your startup code.
Once you've changed your startup code,
you can relaunch your application
and you'll get a pretty good idea
of what pulling in Cocoa Scripting
is going to do to your application.
It'll slow down the launch,
it'll increase the footprint.
Now, you haven't written your code yet,
but you haven't written any
Carbon Scriptability code yet either,
and the presumption is that
they will be about equivalent.
That the hit that you're taking is
the overhead for Cocoa Scripting,
and you can measure that without
having to write all the code first.
If you really want to do this,
contact developer technical
support and put "scripting hybrid"
in the subject of your email,
and you will get a response
from John Monprion about
how to go about doing this.
Like I said, it's not hard,
but you've got to know a few things.
There's lots and lots of
documentation to help you make
your application scriptable.
The most important part of it is
the design of your dictionary,
and these places here are good places to
go to find out information about that.
You also need to implement
Objective-C or other objects to
bring your dictionary to life.
There's more detailed information
about how to do that at these places.
Um, Cocoa and Carbon are both, uh,
are both documented here.
And the AppleScript language
guide is going to be valuable to
anybody that's writing scriptable
applications or writing AppleScripts.
Anybody along the line, end users,
testers, engineers, marketers,
everybody should be looking at
the AppleScript language guide.
It teaches you how AppleScript itself
works and teaches you a lot
about how your object model
needs to interface with that.
Each time we release new software,
we keep you up to date
on the latest changes.
Those are in these release notes,
which should be on your CDs.
And the Interapplication
Communication Tech Note is kind of an
umbrella where you'll find almost all
the rest of this stuff that we mentioned,
plus a whole bunch of other stuff
about Apple Events and AppleScript.
If you're afraid you don't want
to ask any newbie questions,
you can go to the AppleScript Q&A and
see if maybe the answer's already there.
But don't be afraid to
ask newbie questions.
They're real easy for us to answer,
and we feel like we've done a good deed.
And you can get sample code also.
And you can get information from outside.
The AppleScript website has
a wealth of information,
including dozens and dozens of
sample scripts for Apple applications
and other applications,
creating synergy between them.
You should definitely visit that site.
And there's books and websites
published by third parties that
also have very valuable information.
And the AppleScript website is a good
place to start to find most of those.
There's a section in there that's
just all about third-party websites
that you can go to to learn even more.
These are all the sessions
that you've missed.
But if you get the DVDs,
you can watch them there,
or maybe some of you guys were at them.
This is today's session and the rest
of the ones that we're going to have.
I mentioned tomorrow we're going
to talk about using AppleScript to
test your applications.
And also there's going to be a
session where Sal Sigournian is
going to talk about AppleScript for
system administrators.
AppleScript is a tremendous
tool for system administrators.
It saves them a lot of time.
If you want your system
administrator to love you,
you should write a good scriptable app.
And if you need to get to us directly,
Todd Fernandez is my boss,
Sal Segoyan is our marketing manager,
Jason is our technology manager,
and John Monprion is our DTS contact.
You should always go
through John Monprion first.
He's going to have the quickest answer
for you if it's already been asked,
and he's going to direct it to the right
person if it hasn't already been asked.